Track 01 [dance the Night away]

I'd like to think this song is about the prom night at the beginning of the dragon arc and it's nelrith being just jealous of maragi's popularity and the way he feels he was treated. very vampiric language being used with "drain them out and consume them". "so dance the night away" being repeated can be seen as either nelrith addressing himself so he can get his mind off of maragi or him addressing what she does after having ruined the lives of others or whatever bullshit nelrith tells himself.

Track 02 [this Time]

This track follows up directly the events of the previous song, he's still at prom and he's being miserable and melodramatic about it, not much else to say, that's most of the album.

Track 03 [starcrossed breaths (i Want)]

haha get it the third song is an "i want song" it's like musicals haha i get it ha.
you know what's not funny?

Plagiarism.

So i basically stole the whole melody, some lyrics and a bit of the chord progression off of the song "Our Generation" by Janis fka Sliimy

Aside from being one of the most awesome piece of Myspace Millenial Pop, it was made by a, then, gay "guy" that transitioned into an awesome non binary trans woman. foreshadowing is a literary device.

The line "i want a starcrossed breath" comes from me mishearing "we want a Starbucks please" and the whole "it's just a ha-heartbeat" comes from the song, in context it's about accepting gay people loving eachother. foreshadowing is a literary device.

I think the standout line has to be "I envy your dresses, your friends and your shirts" as it continues the window shopping themes of "Heartbreak Studio" off of Nibiru, by making Nelrith envious of the things that surround Maragi be it social or physical. the insistance of clothes really emphasizes the superficiality of his love. it could also be another scrap for the transfem nelrith believers in chat. foreshadowing is a literary device.

Transfem Nelrith will not happen and and if it did she would be worse off on estrogen according to Dizz.


Track 04 [alone (not Again)]

This is the song i had the most problems with writing lyrics for, i literally only figured them out less than a week before releasing this album. I took a bunch of lyrics from some songs that i was gonna do for this album but got scrapped. Somehow i made it work.

I wanted to remind people that this is not regular loser music but DRAGON loser music so i decided to use the fact that dragons probably have scales and that they can probably be worn down by friction.

The second verse is i think probably some of my best work lyrics wise on this album, i like the imagery of sewing something directly onto someone (especially when that someone designs clothes). i think it's a good metaphor for the things we do sometimes to put up appearances and how some relations permanantly change you. this also could be another scrap for the transfem nelrith believers in chat. 

Track 05 [rear Window]

this song actually predates all of the other songs by a bit as it was made in august of 2024. at first i made it as a parody of like almost incelcore-ish music but since i needed a song for this album and i wasn't gonna release a song that would depict me as a stalker freak i decided to give that honour to Nelrith Jynn.

The instrumentation and overuse of soundgoodizer was definitely influenced by the album "No Discernable End in Sight" 


Track 06 [Everything]

This was the first song i actually recorded as a nelrith song for this album. The melody came to me at work and lowkey i'm pissed i wasted such a good melody on this album.

This melody was very much written to be a ripoff of early beach boys tracks like "your summer dream". 

I think "i followed every footstep you were leaving/if you let go give me something to believe in" is probably my actual best lyric in this album, the whole motion of it works really well + you get that little "let go" foreshadowing.


Track 07 [Love again (Do what You want)]
So this song has probably one of my favourite choruses ive written for this album, it doesn't rhyme at all and feels disjointed but still sorta connected. I wrote this one in the public vc of the desynced discord a few days after 10/01, a few people got to see me completely improvise an entire song.

Track 08 [she left Me with a Broken heart]

I think if nelrith were to canonically write a song this would be the closest to what it would sound like: beginner chords, barely any real lyrics, just purely superficial heartbreak stuff. it's probably in my top 3 songs on this album

This song i think only took me about an hour or so to complete, i came up with the chords and lyrics almost on the spot.

I was very much inspired by the songs "bury me" and "♥" by Willy Rodriguez when i made it. 
"bury me" just hammers you with the phrase "for you my love i'm digging a hole" over and over and escalates so that greatily influenced the lyrics. 
Whereas "♥" is a softer acoustic ballad mainly based on a I-IV progression so that was more for the instrumentation side of it.

Also i do think it has that kind of The Smiths vibe to it, anyways it sounds like Depressed Wanker Music is basically what im saying.



Track 09

At first i had done an actual cover of let go as my indie rock project "Lahire", but seeing the incredible opportunity i had in front of me i decide to use it as the last song on nelriths album. This cover is really telling of how he just falls short in every way on this project:

He's one song short of Curtain Call, and even then he didn't even manage to make 9 original songs because the last song is a cover of a song that's not even the last song on that album. and it still manages to be longer than most of the other songs he made.
Doesn't help that the song doesn't even appear on the tracklist on the album cover because i don't think he would admit that he put it on there.

Let Go in the original album's context was about selling out but now it's about one dragon's concerning obsession with his ex because i don't think i've stressed this enough but none of the songs on Curtain Call are about Nelrith but every song on incertain Calls are about Maragi, this is very much intentional.

