LYRICS AND CHORDS =====

Squiddle Song by Maya Kern ---



C G6 Am F


wake up in the morning

there's a brand new day ahead

the sun is bright and the clouds smile down

and all your friends are dead
 

but the ocean is so friendly

the bright blue diamond stratosphere

and you know you're gonna have buckets of fun

as soon as you can get out of here

 

G F C G6


running from skipper plumbthroat

last night he murdered all your friends

hiding from skipper plumbthroat

you gotta run from your end

 

C G6 Am F


he came last night when you were all asleep

and you narrowly avoided death

you hid behind a rock while he got to work

now there's no buddies to tangle with

 

you swim and swim and swim some more

to find a new squiddle colony

and though there's hope you really can't help

but feel just a little bit lonely

 

G F C G6


running from skipper plumbthroat

why must squiddles meet such an end?

hiding from skipper plumbthroat

it's time to make new squiddle friends

 

E F C G


squiddles are social creatures

squiddles need friends

even when they have squiddle fights

they always make amends

 

squiddles are peaceful plushes

squiddles would never hurt you

they tangle you up in a big friendship ball

oooooooooooooooooo

 

G F C G6


running from skipper plumbthroat

why must squiddles meet such an end?

hiding from skipper plumbthroat

it's time to make new squiddle friends

 

it's time to make new squiddle friends


-----

ORIGINAL TRACK NAMES AND CHARACTERS =====

1. Cosmic Surgeon                             (John)
2. Dersite Lament                             (Rose + Derse)
3. Ebonyk Attyre                              (Hephaestus)
4. The Middle of Something Truly Wonderful    (Jade)
5. -
6. The Windy Thing                            (John)
7. Void Hopper                                (Roxy)
8. Breakdown                                  (Dirk)
9. Hellmurder Island                          (Jake)
10-32. (unchanged)


-----

FUN FACTS =====

! - The composer of Cupcake Girl, Liam O'Donnell, is the youngest person to contribute to any official Homestuck material.
! - Blue Atom was, at one point, called 'Jack and Jade's fantastic corpseparty.'
! - "Dord" originates from a typographical error that occured back in 1934. Someone in the Merriam-Webster editing staff misread "D or d" - intended as abbreviations for density - as "Dord" and made up a pronunciation for it.
! - There's a video of David Ellis recording "Cyan Beast" live: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XGLUBAgOS7E
