LYRICS =====

Iron Infidel by Samm Neiland 
Special thanks to Katherine Bordonaro, Connor Favero, Lorilyn “Neoscottie” Seyler, Steve Johnson, Andrea McNeil, Ari and Pippin



Han bear ey all vor smarte
Oo en day trei striat ande glemt
Lee kell vell are vey til lit

Vor shlekt ah chilt meh bloo far guh
Vee har ing en sha liet ell aey deed
Lee kell vell are vey til lit


He carries all our pain
And one day his strife is forgotten
However, we are forgiven

Our kin are separated by colour of blood.
We are without without love or virture.
However, we are forgiven.

-----

Bronze Page by Ian "MyUsernamesMud" White and Eston "silence" Schweickart
Vocals performed by Ally Clark



There is a land that I know, it is real and not just make believe
One where friends will defend one another to the end, and you never have to leave

A boy with the love in his heart, 'boldened by the courage in his soul
He will fight for the rights of the fairies and the sprites, a hero among trolls

You sitting there watching troll TV, get on up and come with me!
Adventure lies and soon you will be, watching Fiduspawn!

-----

Your Universe by Marcus Carline
Vocals performed by Rachel St. Marseille
Piano performed by Steve Blum
Bass performed by Nicole Sequeira
Drums performed by Eric Hagstrom



Cigarette ashes burn red
but they fall like snow,
and I hear the wind a callin' my name
and this world's got to end someday soon.

A slick black queen
in a slick black coat
her leggings high and her brim down low.
She's beautiful and she knows it.

It's a cold, cold world
and she's on her own.
This world is hers and hers alone.
She's powerful and she knows it.

She's your girl.
She is your world.
She is your universe.

I caught your eye.
You stole my heart.
I took your arm to show that I care.
You loathe me so and you love it.

I'm your girl
I am your world
I am your universe.

Our love was hot,
but I was cold.
You always made me feel so blue.
But when I said draw
and you shot,
it was obvious that you were colder.

I'm not unhurt,
but you lost out.
When I said draw I just knew that you would.
You'll miss me so when I'm gone.
I'll miss you so when I'm gone.

Love or hate
I was your girl
I was your world
I was your universe.

-----

Temporal Shenanigans by Rachel Macwhirter



There's no need to justify the meaningless destruction.
The voices always tell me that it's how I'm meant to function.
Everything's in order, everything will come in time,
just as long as I complete the tasks that are mine.

When the time comes that you see the way destiny lies,
it would be okay if you'd pretend to be surprised.

I see in full clarity what was so muddy before.
You see a thousand of me and this is what I'm meant for.

I'm going around not in circles but in spirographs.
It's pretty much this hard to keep just one timeline intact.
I can see the endings that the realms will not permit.
I see them over again while building up to this.

In my current state, it's a bit difficult to sympathise,
but I know what I'm doing! Don't try to tell me otherwise.

I see in full clarity what was so muddy before.
You see a thousand of me and this is what we're made for.

From now on I know I'll be more careful where I tread.
I'm alive and smiling. I'm so tired of being dead.

I see in full clarity what was so muddy before.
You see I'm far from empty. I'm back to what I live for.
I see in full clarity what was so muddy before.
You see I'm far from empty. I'm back to what I live for.

-----

ORIGINAL TRACK NAMES AND CHARACTERS =====

1. -
2. Handmaid of Death
3. If I Were Like Rufio        [Tavros]
4. The Green Odyssey           [Bec]
5. Hymn of the Signless
6. Theme of PM With Ring 
7. The Real Heroes             [Kids]
8. Bete Blanche                [PM]
9. Hussie
10. Mechani% of the Void
11. An Invincible Demon        [Lord English]
12. Heirstrike                 [John]
13. Witc)(ing )(our
14. -
15. Apocalypse Maid
16. Fidusspawn (Adventure Lies)
17. Playtime is Over           [Dirk]
18. Caw Caw Motherfuckers      [Davesprite]
19. Air for Eclectic Bass      [Jade]
20. Rainbow Drinker
21. Pumpkinsniffle Puree
22. Luminous                   [Serenity]
23. Dirk's Dersite Dirge
24. Paradox Remnant
25. The Fallen King            [White King]
26. Jake's Theme
27 - 32. (unchanged)

-----

FUN FACTS =====

! - Samm Neiland wrote 'Iron Infidel' in what he calls "Old Trollish," which is derived from Norwegian, Swedish, Icelandic and other Nordic languages.
! - There's a live performance of Temporal Shenanigans: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QAsuHronyE4
! - The morse code in Cobalt Thief says "please help him," like Serenity does in the comic.
! - Initially, the tracks were to be named after their colors alone. For example: "Fuchsia, Side A."
! - For those in the future... these tracks were picked as the result of a music contest. There was a maximum of three tracks per entrant, and the total amount of tracks ended up being over 1,000.
! - The track art was picked in a similar manner. There were over 1,500 pieces of track art submitted.
